# My health story

I decided to set up this page as a place to document my health journey. The main purpose will be to provide
information for any medical professionals that I work with in the future who need to be brought up to speed on
my situation. For that reason, I won&apos;t include information that a medical professional would likely know,
but I will attempt to provide Wikipedia links for the curious. Maybe in the future I will provide a
layman&apos;s version of this story.

## Overview

In May of 2020 I came down with bilateral thoracic outlet syndrome. It was misdiagnosed a number of times but
at the very end of 2020 I finally understood what I was dealing with. In 2021 I had two first rib resection
(FRRS) surgeries, once on each side. Following the second surgery on the right side, I had a lot of new nerve
pain in my right arm and hand. Over several months some of the most acute new symptoms subsided. All told,
I&apos;ve gotten worse since the original onset of the condition. The certainty of a flareup from doing
anything significant with my arms or hands severely limits what activities I am capable of doing. The chronic
pain I experience is significant.

## Timeline

Now I will step through the timeline of events in detail, summarizing different periods of time and dwelling
on moments where there was a significant change in my condition.

### Leading up to May 2020

I will try to summarize concisely the relevant bits of my life up to May 2020, the onset of TOS. I will
describe some hobbies, and then the leading indicators of TOS that I noticed during this period.

#### Relevant hobbies

In my childhood through the onset of TOS, I spent a lot of time rock climbing, playing guitar, playing
computer games, and fire spinning.

From high school onwards, I was rock climbing very often. I competed on a team which involved training long
hours during high school. There were stretches of weeks where I was at the climbing gym every day. I have
climbed outdoors many times, and have made many trips for the express purpose of rock climbing outdoors.
Hopefully it&apos;s becoming clear just how much time I&apos;ve spent rock climbing! I think what&apos;s most
important to note is that I spent many hours bouldering overhanging routes. Bouldering is a type of climbing
that is shorter and more intense then other styles of climbing. The end result is that I spent a lot of time
with my full body weight on both arms, with my arms fully extended above my head. Since high school, I have
also been an avid fan of doing pullups, and would crank out a lot of them without properly warming up
(whoops). My personal best was 42!

![Rock climbing](/images/amarillo_sunset.jpg)

For both playing guitar and computer, I spent a long time doing these things with (probably) poor posture.
Both involve lots of repeated hand movements for long periods of time. I did both of these extensively from an
early age.

From 2014 onwards I also began fire spinning, and started doing so very often. Fire spinning (or more
specifically spinning poi, my prop of choice) involves moving one&apos;s arms around one&apos;s body for long
periods of time. It can be a serious shoulder workout! Below is a video of some relatively calm spinning.

<iframe
width="560"
height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/qdBfPpSsvoM?si=GbxyZOWdx7JSc2Lq"
title="YouTube video player"
frameBorder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
allowFullScreen
/>

#### Leading indicators of TOS

I always seemed to have sensitive ulnar nerves. I would often hit my funny bone and feel a lot of pain. One
time this caused me to pass out for a brief period, although dehydration and being physically exhausted
probably contributed to that episode.

I have always had poor circulation in my arms. My hands would often be very cold to the touch, and appear
pretty pale.

In the six months leading up to May 2020, I started experiencing numbness in my forearms and pinky and ring
fingers while doing certain activities, most notably playing Nintendo Switch (a handheld gaming device) and
using my home computer setup, which had an unergonomic keyboard and mouse setup. Sometimes I would stop the
activity, but other times I would just continue despite the numbness. It never progressed to pain during this
time.

In mid-May 2020, I injured my right shoulder&apos;s rotator cuff while servicing my at-home rock climbing
wall. I was holding onto the wall with one hand and turning a wrench with the right hand when I felt a pain in
my shoulder. I stopped what I was doing, but over the next couple of weeks until the clear onset of TOS, I
continued to spin poi and type on my computer, which felt funny and occasionally a little painful.

### May 2020 - December 2020

TODO
